src/main/asciidoc/_chapters/community.adoc, before:

////
/**
 *
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
////

[[community]]
= Community
:doctype: book
:numbered:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:

== Decisions

.Feature Branches

Feature Branches are easy to make.
You do not have to be a committer to make one.
Just request the name of your branch be added to JIRA up on the developer's mailing list and a committer will add it for you.
Thereafter you can file issues against your feature branch in Apache HBase JIRA.
Your code you keep elsewhere -- it should be public so it can be observed -- and you can update dev mailing list on progress.
When the feature is ready for commit, 3 +1s from committers will get your feature merged.
See link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/asM982C5FkS1[HBase, mail # dev - Thoughts
              about large feature dev branches]

[[patchplusonepolicy]]
.Patch +1 Policy

The below policy is something we put in place 09/2012.
It is a suggested policy rather than a hard requirement.
We want to try it first to see if it works before we cast it in stone. 

Apache HBase is made of link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components].
Components have one or more <<owner,OWNER>>s.
See the 'Description' field on the link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components]        JIRA page for who the current owners are by component. 

Patches that fit within the scope of a single Apache HBase component require, at least, a +1 by one of the component's owners before commit.
If owners are absent -- busy or otherwise -- two +1s by non-owners will suffice. 

Patches that span components need at least two +1s before they can be committed, preferably +1s by owners of components touched by the x-component patch (TODO: This needs tightening up but I think fine for first pass). 

Any -1 on a patch by anyone vetos a patch; it cannot be committed until the justification for the -1 is addressed. 

[[hbase.fix.version.in.jira]]
.How to set fix version in JIRA on issue resolve

Here is how link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/azemIi5RCJ1[we agreed] to set versions in JIRA when we resolve an issue.
If trunk is going to be 0.98.0 then: 

* Commit only to trunk: Mark with 0.98 
* Commit to 0.95 and trunk : Mark with 0.98, and 0.95.x 
* Commit to 0.94.x and 0.95, and trunk: Mark with 0.98, 0.95.x, and 0.94.x 
* Commit to 89-fb: Mark with 89-fb. 
* Commit site fixes: no version 

[[hbase.when.to.close.jira]]
.Policy on when to set a RESOLVED JIRA as CLOSED

We link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/4cIKs1iwXMS1[agreed] that for issues that list multiple releases in their _Fix Version/s_ field, CLOSE the issue on the release of any of the versions listed; subsequent change to the issue must happen in a new JIRA. 

[[no.permanent.state.in.zk]]
.Only transient state in ZooKeeper!

You should be able to kill the data in zookeeper and hbase should ride over it recreating the zk content as it goes.
This is an old adage around these parts.
We just made note of it now.
We also are currently in violation of this basic tenet -- replication at least keeps permanent state in zk -- but we are working to undo this breaking of a golden rule. 

[[community.roles]]
== Community Roles

[[owner]]
.Component Owner/Lieutenant

Component owners are listed in the description field on this Apache HBase JIRA link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components]        page.
The owners are listed in the 'Description' field rather than in the 'Component Lead' field because the latter only allows us list one individual whereas it is encouraged that components have multiple owners. 

Owners or component lieutenants are volunteers who are (usually, but not necessarily) expert in their component domain and may have an agenda on how they think their Apache HBase component should evolve. 

. Owners will try and review patches that land within their component's scope. 
. If applicable, if an owner has an agenda, they will publish their goals or the design toward which they are driving their component 

If you would like to be volunteer as a component owner, just write the dev list and we'll sign you up.
Owners do not need to be committers. 

[[hbase.commit.msg.format]]
== Commit Message format

We link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/Gwxwl10cFHa1[agreed] to the following SVN commit message format: 
[source]
----
HBASE-xxxxx <title>. (<contributor>)
---- 
If the person making the commit is the contributor, leave off the '(<contributor>)' element.

Commit message:

HBASE-13908 update site docs for 1.2 RC.
copied from master as of c5f3d17ae3a61cbf77cab89cddd8303e20e5e734

src/main/asciidoc/_chapters/community.adoc, after:

////
/**
 *
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
////

[[community]]
= Community
:doctype: book
:numbered:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:

== Decisions

.Feature Branches

Feature Branches are easy to make.
You do not have to be a committer to make one.
Just request the name of your branch be added to JIRA up on the developer's mailing list and a committer will add it for you.
Thereafter you can file issues against your feature branch in Apache HBase JIRA.
Your code you keep elsewhere -- it should be public so it can be observed -- and you can update dev mailing list on progress.
When the feature is ready for commit, 3 +1s from committers will get your feature merged.
See link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/asM982C5FkS1[HBase, mail # dev - Thoughts
              about large feature dev branches]

[[patchplusonepolicy]]
.Patch +1 Policy

The below policy is something we put in place 09/2012.
It is a suggested policy rather than a hard requirement.
We want to try it first to see if it works before we cast it in stone.

Apache HBase is made of link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components].
Components have one or more <<owner,OWNER>>s.
See the 'Description' field on the link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components]        JIRA page for who the current owners are by component.

Patches that fit within the scope of a single Apache HBase component require, at least, a +1 by one of the component's owners before commit.
If owners are absent -- busy or otherwise -- two +1s by non-owners will suffice.

Patches that span components need at least two +1s before they can be committed, preferably +1s by owners of components touched by the x-component patch (TODO: This needs tightening up but I think fine for first pass).

Any -1 on a patch by anyone vetoes a patch; it cannot be committed until the justification for the -1 is addressed.

[[hbase.fix.version.in.jira]]
.How to set fix version in JIRA on issue resolve

Here is how link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/azemIi5RCJ1[we agreed] to set versions in JIRA when we resolve an issue.
If master is going to be 0.98.0 then:

* Commit only to master: Mark with 0.98
* Commit to 0.95 and master: Mark with 0.98, and 0.95.x
* Commit to 0.94.x and 0.95, and master: Mark with 0.98, 0.95.x, and 0.94.x
* Commit to 89-fb: Mark with 89-fb.
* Commit site fixes: no version

[[hbase.when.to.close.jira]]
.Policy on when to set a RESOLVED JIRA as CLOSED

We link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/4cIKs1iwXMS1[agreed] that for issues that list multiple releases in their _Fix Version/s_ field, CLOSE the issue on the release of any of the versions listed; subsequent change to the issue must happen in a new JIRA.

[[no.permanent.state.in.zk]]
.Only transient state in ZooKeeper!

You should be able to kill the data in zookeeper and hbase should ride over it recreating the zk content as it goes.
This is an old adage around these parts.
We just made note of it now.
We also are currently in violation of this basic tenet -- replication at least keeps permanent state in zk -- but we are working to undo this breaking of a golden rule.

[[community.roles]]
== Community Roles

[[owner]]
.Component Owner/Lieutenant

Component owners are listed in the description field on this Apache HBase JIRA link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Acomponents-panel[components]        page.
The owners are listed in the 'Description' field rather than in the 'Component Lead' field because the latter only allows us list one individual whereas it is encouraged that components have multiple owners.

Owners or component lieutenants are volunteers who are (usually, but not necessarily) expert in their component domain and may have an agenda on how they think their Apache HBase component should evolve.

. Owners will try and review patches that land within their component's scope.
. If applicable, if an owner has an agenda, they will publish their goals or the design toward which they are driving their component

If you would like to be volunteer as a component owner, just write the dev list and we'll sign you up.
Owners do not need to be committers.

[[hbase.commit.msg.format]]
== Commit Message format

We link:http://search-hadoop.com/m/Gwxwl10cFHa1[agreed] to the following Git commit message format:
[source]
----
HBASE-xxxxx <title>. (<contributor>)
----
If the person making the commit is the contributor, leave off the '(<contributor>)' element.
